>> Erik Reinert: All right,
so the startup phase.
Just get it working.
If you've ever worked at
a startup company before,
if you've ever been on a project
that's been growing or starting to be
developed as an application,
you've probably heard this quite a bit.
Just get it working.
You've probably heard it
from your manager too.
This is normally a phase that
is heavily focused around we
need to get things out the door.
The highest priority right
now is users features,
being able to get more
people onto the application.
And that's really what we talk about,
a business priority.
That's all business is caring about.
Something to note about DevOps and
platform, especially as you move up higher
in it, it will become more and
more about business and less and
less about technology because a lot of
it eventually ends up becoming okay,
well I want to convince you why
we should make these changes and
why we should actually move from
this platform to this platform.
And so in this phase, normally you'll
deal with the hardest pushback.
Normally people will be like, no,
I don't care about any of this.
Just get it run, just get it working.
Our phase scenario.
Each phase, like I said, has a scenario.
The phase scenario here is that we have
source code managed by a development team.
We didn't write this source code.
We don't really have any
understanding of it.
We know that there takes some
environment variables and
we know that if we run
the binary it should work.
But that's really about as far as we're
going with the source code itself.
We're not going to really be doing any
actual source source code changes or
anything like that.
And this is pretty common in a DevOps
platform deployment scenario.
You don't really know.
You might not have a deep knowledge
of the actual source code itself, but
you are going to be maintaining
the infrastructure around it.
So that's the mindset I want you to be in.
We need the quickest deployment
with minimal effort required.
So again, the goal here should be I don't
want to have to hire another person to
get this out the door.
I want to be able to do it myself.
I want to be able to get this up and
running pretty easily.
We're looking for the biggest
wins with minimal required setup.
So again,
going back to that whole minimal effort,
we want to just again just get it working.
We want it to be online,
set up and running.
I don't want to have to put in
a ton of effort to do that.
Then the last thing is we're learning
about what needs to be maintained.
None of you know what we're deploying.
I do, but
in this scenario I wouldn't either.
So this would be also
a learning part as well.
So you can't expect in your
first phase to be optimizing.
That's something I want you
to take away from this.
This is like normally in a startup phase,
you're not optimizing, you're focusing on
getting the fundamentals down and
again, just get it working.
The goals here are actually very simple.
We're going to create a repository
to store source code.
Each of you are going to do that.
We're going to create a database
deployment for production and we're going
to create an application production or
a deployment for production as well.
So really three simple things.
Repo database deployment and
application deployment.
Before each phase, I'm going to quickly
talk about what we're building, why we're
building it, and you get to see a fun
flowchart, because I like flowcharts.
So in the startup phase,
we're going to be focused on building
the infrastructure that you
see right in front of you.
It looks complex, but
it's actually very, very simple.
So the goal of this infrastructure is,
as we said before, to just get it working.
I don't want to worry
about managing things.
So what are the things
that we have to manage?
Well, we need to manage
an application running and
we need to manage a database that
that application connects to, right?
Those are the two things that we will
have to figure out solutions for
now, you may immediately go, okay,
well let's build on top of Amazon and
use VPCs and Da Da da.
But you don't need any of that, right?
Like you can, sure, if you want to,
if you want to become a cloud architect,
you can go out and learn that stuff,
but you don't really need that.
And like when you're in
the startup phase of a company or
in the startup phase of an application,
you've probably heard like, you know,
host my WordPress on Kubernetes.
Like that's definitely one of those
scenarios where it's like, dude,
you don't need, just put it on a vps.
Again, just simple,
put it on a vps, have it running,
just do whatever you need to,
just get it online.
Now there's a couple of things that we
do want to kind of make decision wise.
The first one is do we want to use
a VPS or do we want to at least try and
be containerized?
That's probably a decision you'll end up
making whenever you start trying to Deploy
something.
Here's what I will say about that.
VPSs are great, but
in terms of technology and
the things we can do today,
they are a little outdated.
A vps, when we mean a vps,
it's just an instance.
You get a Linux instance, ussh into it,
you set up all the programs you need,
you copied the files over to the instance,
all that work, and
then you run a command and
then boom, there you go.
You can do that.
And I'm not trying to say you shouldn't.
If you wanna set up a VPS, go for it.
I'm not here to necessarily
tell you what to do, but again,
I want you to hear me out When I
say there's reason as to why
every single one of these
components were picked.
It wasn't just because
I like Amazon products.
So for me personally,
we are using Containers now.
We have the day of images, right?
I can ship an operating
system with Docker, right?
I can at least ship a image of that VPs
basically with a Docker image, right?
And so one of the decisions that were made
in the startup phase was to say, okay,
we're going to do containers.
We're gonna at least out the gate,
we're gonna do containers to make it so
that we can at least also
move in the future, right?
Because we know we're going to eventually
probably want to move to bigger
orchestrators and stuff like that.
So why not make this decision now,
right at the startup phase and
then let that grow as the organization or
as the project goes.
So containers was a strategic
decision here, right?
And so, whenever you're thinking about
infrastructure, these are the kind
of things and the kind of arguments that
you can make in these discussions to help
solidify what you're trying to do or
help your argument basically, yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Is there any argument for
not using containers?
>> Erik Reinert: Tons,
VPS are actually still used heavily.
Yeah, I have this problem myself
personally because I've been in
the industry for a little while now that
you're up here, you know what I mean?
You're so used to kubernetes,
da da da, you're up here.
But the majority of development and
stuff like that is still very much
down here, you know what I mean?
And so, you may be used to Terraform and
IEC and Kubernetes and cloud, blah,
blah, blah, but no, honestly,
a lot of storefronts and
things like that today are still like
either running co-located even or
yeah, still running VPSs or
VPCs sorry, VPSs and stuff like that.
Because it's just.
It's this startup phase mentality of like,
I just want to get it running.
I don't know how to get to that point.
So, I know how to run commands, right?
I know how to.
And then they just stay, right?
And that's it.
And then there you go.
>> MALE: Right, and so no,
VPS are actually super common still, yeah.
>> Erik Reinert: What is a vps?
Gosh.
What is it?
It's a virtual private cloud.
Well, vpc.
That's VPC server.
VPS is server.
Yeah, Virtual private server, basically.
So in the good old days when we
didn't have massive scaling and
horizontal whatever, everybody would go
to their favorite hosting provider and
pay for a little slice of compute and
RAM, basically.
And so,
we called them VPSs back in the day.
That was like the marketing term.
That sounded cool, I guess.
I don't know.
I actually hated it.
I was just like,
just call it an instance, man.
I don't know.
But yeah, VPSs are just,
you go to a provider.
I want two cores, four gigs of RAM.
Cool.
I'll take care of the rest
in the full stack.
Learning path on frontend Masters,
which is something you guys,
I would definitely recommend.
Jem made a course that focuses
basically on a lot of what you guys
are talking about.
Like, okay, I want to deploy a vps,
I want to go with cli, Create, setup,
Docker, manage it, all that kind of stuff.
Yeah, that would absolutely be a good
starter to this course because then it
would at least get you more comfortable
with even some of these concepts.
And what is this versus this?
If you don't understand
what a VPS is at all,
I would recommend
checking out that course.
It'll probably help you a bit.
But yeah, these are all like,
there's the engineer in the room
who will give suggestions, but
then there's the engineer in the room
that will make decisions, right?
And you normally don't want to be
the engineer, just making suggestions.
Like, if you really want to impact
a company and even grow in your career,
you want to be making decisions.
So again, if there's two people
who are like, I like Azure.
I like Amazon.
Well, it's like, okay, that's great,
but what works for us, right?
And so again, just to go back off of what
you said earlier, that would be a massive
argument that could be solvable by simply
saying, well, Azure can get us in and
on the cloud without even needing
Docker knowledge or anything like that.
We do take a similar Approach.
Again, I did take on the expectation or
the responsibility of saying, well,
I want it to be containerized, but
again that's also a decision around.
I know I'm going to be running
containers in the future, so
might as well just do it now.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, I was just getting
at like kind of maybe what's like
the trade off.
>> Erik Reinert: Yep.
>> Speaker 3: It seems like the VPS
is like the lowest level and
then you got kind of like the managed
like Azure app service or
elastic Beanstalk and
then you got the containerized approach.
Like yeah, what's the trade off there?
>> Erik Reinert: Normally the managed
services are containerization abstracted
away, right?
Like normally that's what they are,
like Beanstalk.
Again, the reason why I said what I said
was is because I have used Beanstalk at
least like years ago.
And from what I recall it would take
your code, bundle it up for you and
ship it out for you, right?
And then they would containerize it and
take care of all of it for you.
But yeah, I mean, and kind of just to give
a little bit more of, which is better.
So technically a VPS will give
you more dedicated resources.
The reason for
that is just based off of the pure and
simple fact that it's a virtual machine.
A virtual machine takes
a specific piece of compute and
a specific piece of memory and
says, that is mine now.
Thank you.
I only own this if you have scale.
If you're really worried about I want
as much compute power as possible.
A VPS might be better for you.
The reason why I say that
is because I don't know why
Bitcoin came in mind, but
that would be a good example.
It's like, I know I'm going to be
throttling the CPU the entire time.
I know it's going to be
consuming tons of resources.
Probably don't want to put that
on a container with thousands of
other containers.
You're going to be a bad neighbor and
you're going to probably
make the provider mad.
A VPS would be more helpful there.
Not that I'm saying go to your cloud
provider and start running Bitcoin miners.
But yeah, there's trade offs there.
So yeah, it's really good to think
about what works best for you guys.
The application that we're going
to be deploying is very simple.
It's just a go application
that connects to a database.
We're not really worried about tons of
processing power and stuff like that.
So like I said, I knew that I wanted
to be on containers in the future.
So, containers is kind
of where we're starting.
That's like the first layer of
the foundation of the house.
It's like, okay, containers, great.
We made one decision, now where
do we want to run that container?
>> MALE: Right, that's the next decision
to go back to what you said as well.
>> Erik Reinert: The nice thing about
cloud providers is they normally provide
some kind of managed easy solution.
They'll have an entry point
solution because they want you
to drink the Kool Aid and
then eventually get to the big solution.
They want you on Kubernetes, but
they know you can't get there.
So they've built smaller, more again,
abstracted away solutions that make it so
that you can just drop
your application and
then two years later you're giving
them $100,000 a year or something.
In this case,
the service I chose was App Runner.
Now, App Runner is probably
similar to Azure's app service,
where its goal is really just to be like,
I have absolutely nothing.
I just want to get my thing
running in the cloud.
That's exactly what App Runner focuses on.
It will take your source code.
It will potentially, or if you want it to,
it'll even run its own backend builds for
you, it'll containerize it and then it'll
put it up in the cloud and run it for you.
What's nice about that?
Well, technically, again,
talking about that abstraction level,
it's containerization and
it's using all of Amazon's existing
tooling underneath the hood.
That's how Amazon works.
Most cloud providers do that.
They'll be like, okay,
well we've already got ecs.
Well, let's build another service
that's even easier on top of ECS and
then charge more for it.
And then there we go.
Now we're making two handed
money in both hands basically.
And that's what App Runner is.
App Runner is basically a service on top
of a service that makes it easier for
you to get into the door.
But it does mean that underneath
the hood you're going to have horizontal
scalability out of the box.
With App Runner, you'll be able to scale
to however many instances you need.
It'll still have that.
I don't know if you guys remember,
years ago, Google had a keynote where they
showed off the first horizontal scaling
Kubernetes and everybody was amazed and
was like, my gosh,
he's creating thousands of instances.
We're at the point now where these low
level, simple entry level services,
they do that,
like they'll do that out of the box.
So, there's kind of an argument
here to say as well that,
you could never leave
the startup phase too, right?
Like, you could pick a solution that works
so well that you could be like, well,
why do I need kubernetes?
Like, it's already doing that for me.
I'm already getting auto scaling,
I'm already getting automatic restarts and
stuff like that.
And so
these do become like vendor lock ins.
Is really what I'm trying to say is like,
you know,
at some point you'll either be running on
App Runner or you'll be running an ec.
Yes, but it's really all the same
Kool Aid, it's all the same sauce.
At the end of the day, it's just, how much
of that ownership do you want to take on?
It's really my only point
that I'm trying to make.
So in the diagram, you'll see that
our client makes a request and
it goes directly to App Runner.
Now, from us, from our mentality,
that's all we know.
We just know it goes to App Runner.
Does that mean there's
a CDN underneath it?
Does that mean that there's caching?
Does that mean.
I have no idea.
So that's the other side of using
services like this is you're putting
a lot of responsibility on that one thing
to solve a lot of different problems.